## Construction of Prokaryotic Illumina RNA Libraries

### Created by UW-Madison Biotechnology Center @[UWBC](https://www.biotech.wisc.edu/services/dnaseq)

##### [Copyright (c) 2016 UW-Madison Biotechnology Center. All Rights Reserved.]

Total RNA submitted to the University of Wisconsin-Madison Biotechnology Center is verified for purity and integrity via the NanoDrop2000 Spectrophotometer and Agilent 2100 BioAnalyzer, respectively.  Samples that meet the Illumina sample input guidelines are prepared according to the TruSeq® RNA Preparation Guide using the TruSeq RNA Library Prep Kit v2 (Illumina, San Diego, CA). Each sample is ribosomally reduced using the Ribo-Zero™ rRNA Removal kit (Bacteria).  Reduced rRNA samples are purified by paramagnetic beads (Agencourt RNAClean XP Beads, Beckman Coulter Inc., Brea, CA). Reduced rRNA is fragmented using divalent cations under elevated temperature and immediately reverse transcribed into double-stranded (ds) cDNA using SuperScript II Reverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California, USA) and random primers.  The ds cDNA is purified by paramagnetic beads (Agencourt AMPure XP Beads, Beckman Coulter, Inc. Brea, CA) end-repaired by T4 DNA polymerase and Klenow DNA Polymerase, and phosphorylated by T4 polynucleotide kinase.  The blunt ended cDNA is purified by paramagnetic beads and then incubated with Klenow DNA Polymerase to add an ‘A’ base (Adenine) to the 3’ end of the blunt phosphorylated DNA fragments. DNA fragments are ligated to Illumina adapters, which have a single ‘T’ base (Thymine) overhang at their 3’end.  The adapter-ligated products are purified by paramagnetic beads.  Products of the ligation are PCR-amplified with PhusionTM DNA Polymerase using Illumina's genomic DNA primer set and purified by paramagnetic beads.  Quality and quantity of the DNA is assessed using an Agilent DNA 1000 series chip assay and ThermoFisher Qubit dsDNA HS Assay Kit.  Libraries were diluted to 2nM, pooled in an equimolar ratio, and run on the Illumina HiSeq2500, using a single lane of paired end, 100 bp sequencing, and v2 Rapid SBS chemistry.  Fastq files were generated using Casava 1.8.2.
